I'm Vicki MacDonald and I'm at Holy Trinity Church in Sandinow as part of the Longest Yarn
and I have with me Peter and Jackie Smith and they're going to talk about their parents'
time during the war. I'll start with you Peter if I may please. Can I ask you a little bit about
you what you remember about your father and what he did during the war? My dad was a coal
William Smith and he served in the Second World War between 1939 and 1941. As far as I know he
told me stories of him serving in Iceland primarily to keep the the Germans from occupying Iceland
and having some sort of influence in the North Atlantic. He was there like I said well about
1941 and he served with the Sixth Battalion York's and Length Regiment
known as the Polar Bears from Sheffield that's their nickname and he didn't tell me a lot but
I think people at that time kept a lot to themselves. I've got photographs of him
actually traveling to Iceland on a troop ship of a sort and one thing I do remember is that
his best man at his wedding was his best mate in the army and he has got photographs of them both
stood together with their obviously with their battle dress and steel helmets on. So he survived
the war and did he meet up with his Sheffield Polar Bears? Polar Bears from Sheffield.
I think that's the most amazing name isn't it? So did he meet up with them? Did they feel them?
I do not recall him meeting up with a sort of reunion or anything like that but he
obviously kept in touch with his best man because he married my mum in 1952.
That's a really lovely story I think you know something wonderful for you to remember
especially today thank you. I'm going to now speak to Jackie and ask her about her father's stories
during the war. Well actually it was my grandfather. My own parents they were too young to serve
in the war but my grandfather he was around when it was the Sheffield Blitz and I can recall him
telling me about the horrific scenes that he did. Go and see and help retrieve the bodies from the
blitz and and all the devastation that was around there and as he was a coffin maker
he made lots of coffins and helped with all the funerals and things for all the people that
you know that died at that point. So he must have had quite a traumatic war really I mean
yeah it must have been really difficult and he probably didn't get any medals for it.
I think he's got a lot of two medals various medals. My husband's got those he collects all
the things from us. I'm sure he's got a little tin with all his machine books in and all his
little things he's got. So did he stay as a he was you said he was a joiner? He was a joiner and he
remained a joiner for most of his life. From that he went into construction building and stuff
like that with his contracting. More fun and less devastating. Thank you very much.
So back to Peter because he's now going to talk about his mother who worked in an
ordnance factory during the war. Peter? Yeah I mean during the outbreak of war 1939 1940
my mum would have been 20 years old and she she worked in the royal
well. The ordnance factory which was about six miles away from where where she lived
and it was set up as a sort of ghost factory. It took all sort of out of the bombed areas and
moved it up to Yorkshire out of the way of the bombs and yeah she she manufactured bullets and
shells for use in this for use by the army. Did she do that right the way through though?
I think she did yes I think she did I mean the the factory was still there
after the war. I mean I can remember it as a bit it had been converted into something for
peacetime production but it was always there and I don't believe that she did serve
to the end. Did she suffer afterwards? Did she have long problems? Really? I mean she
totally protected were they? No I mean there wasn't protected but the area that she was in
wasn't it wasn't a heavily bombed area during the war and it was like I said at a time where
they were sort of moving the sort of critical manufacture of certain things that you know
into sort of ghost factories and that. Did she speak about it after the war?
Not a lot I mean she obviously told me where she was during the war and she always sort of
the one particular story that I get is that she was walking home one night
and there was a bombing raid on Sheffield and the village that we lived in on the top of the hill
with two anti-aircraft guns and these anti-aircraft guns opened fire and she said she just never
stopped running until she got home and that's just one snippet that I do remember her telling me.
Can't imagine being fired on on your way back from work. Thank you Peter very much. Thank you.